Hi folks, thanks for tuning
in to "Mind Shift" today.
Today we're welcoming
Russell Brand to our show.
In the last decades, trust
has completely evaporated
from our public life.
Nobody believes the word of
politicians, corporate leaders,
bankers, religious figures.
They've basically all been
exposed as total frauds.
When we think about this
corruption of our civic life,
I think public
artists are stepping
into a crucial
political function.
Somebody who has a
million of followers
on Twitter or Facebook, they can
speak directly to their fans.
They can create their own
media, build their own network,
and spread all
kinds of new ideas.
So you have artists like Russell
Brand-- and also Eve Ensler,
who is with us today-- are
kind of at the cutting edge
of culture right now.
They have the opportunity to
change the operating system
of our culture, by focusing a
collective attention on what
they believe is
important, and what needs
to be done for the future.
[THEME MUSIC]
Hello everybody.
Today we're on GaiamTV's "Mind
Shift," where we'll be speaking
about the upcoming political,
social, spiritual, sexual
revolution, with
a strong proponent
and advocate of transformation.
And that is our special
guest, Russell Brand.
He's a comedian, a
writer, an actor,
touring the world
with his one man show,
"the Messiah Complex."
So please welcome
him here, thank you.
NARRATOR: Born in Essex
England, Russell Brand
is an acclaimed comedian,
actor, and author.
His movie credits include
"Forgetting Sarah Marshall,"
"Get Him to the Greek,"
and "Despicable Me."
And his memoir, "My Booky
Wook," sold over 600,000 copies
to date.
He is currently on a sold
out world tour of his one man
show, "the Messiah Complex."
You're here.
Russell Brand.
Consciousness and
happening of body, hey?
That's currently what I am.
Nice, how is that
feeling these days?
I feel all right, I mean,
I'm not yet ready to become
a disembodied consciousness.
Although, we don't
truly understand
the nature of consciousness.
Perhaps a little bit of my
consciousness is, in fact,
disembodied.
We don't fully know yet.
I saw you recently
disembody the consciousness
of some MSNBC anchor people.
I was doing that-- I love.
Did they take it with the
full merit of compassion
with which it was engendered?
I don't know, Daniel, I just
remember being there, thinking,
these people are not affording
me the most basic courtesies.
And I found that amusing.
Let's talk a little
bit about revolution.
So you recently
contacted me to do
a little writing
about revolution
as a subject that's
on your mind.
What are your thoughts about it?
Do we need one?
Outer, political?
Inner, spiritual?
-All of those.
That's too succinct, isn't it?
Cause the--
I've never seen
you so succinct.
---the dynamic of the show
must be conversational.
If I like, think [INAUDIBLE]
I'm gonna just try and answer
in binary-- 0111000111.
And I think that,
yeah-- and I think
that it has to be all of them.
It's you, in fact, that turned
me on to that Buckminster
Fuller fella.
And their egos,
[INAUDIBLE] that you
got to look at the whole
thing, the whole reality,
the maximum positive
impact for 100% of humanity
without ecological damage,
as soon as possible.
So how are we going to do that?
I think everyone's
got to be really nice.
I think start off with that.
I suppose what's happened is--
this is what I believe in,
mate.
Is that certain
cultural narratives
are promoted that are
beneficial only to elites.
These cultural
narratives are not true.
We need to realign the cultural
narratives that we promote.
So if there are-- the only
reality that is relevant is,
we have this planet.
There are this many
people on the planet.
There are these resources.
Any system that is in conflict
with the even distribution
of the resources to the people
is a disingenuous and illusory
system.
All these things are just ideas.
America, just an idea.
England, just an idea.
Karate, just an idea.
Wednesday, just an idea.
What about reptilian
overlord aliens?
Definite real thing.
I don't know about the ol'
reptilian overlord aliens.
On some level, they are
just a sort of a frequency,
a vibration, I guess.
And I try not to worry too much
about the reptilian overlords,
because-- in case
they are watching--
I'm hoping to get a part
time job in the Illuminati,
on the weekends.
What do you see your
role with the Illuminati,
and what kind of work would
you like to do with them?
I basically just like to do
massage for the Illuminati.
Just keep the Illuminati
upper echelons
relaxed when they're
having those conferences,
with their hoods up.
No, I think for me, mate, I
think that all we have to do
is not worry too
much about that.
That's just iconography
and narrative data.
The important data is
imperceptible to us,
as you know, cause the loads
of this stuff I got off of you.
I don't know why I'm
telling you back.
Again, [INAUDIBLE] you
talk about America.
Is there-- because the realm
of the senses is so limited.
We can only see between infrared
light and ultraviolet light.
We can only hear a
limited decibel range.
We think reality is
what we can apportion
through the limited
instruments of the senses,
but reality is of
course far beyond that.
Spiritual data, we don't
have the correct instruments
to receive it.
And we live primarily in
the realm of the senses.
We live in the unevolved part.
I feel like I've finally
got you talking again.
There you go, I'm off now, man.
One-word answers are
fucked off, ain't they?
Right, so we live
in a-- when you
talk about-- see,
in Christian myth,
these ideas are quite evident.
When we talk about the resur--
what Campbell said-- what
is the relevance of the
resurrection of Christ,
some guy 2000 years ago,
if we are not constantly
resurrected into the moment.
Into the moment and you.
I think what Christianity
is referring to,
with this resurrection myth,
is that the dead human ape
has fulfilled its potential.
The dead human ape
has not evolved
for the last 10,000 years.
These are the achievements
of the dead human ape.
Now we must transform,
become enlightened,
so that we can access the
next realm of consciousness
necessary for evolution.
Right, which also involves
sharing the resources
equitably, so the whole planet
can partake in the abundance
that's available on this--
We've gotta let go of
temporary, transient ideas
like individualism.
The nature of monotheistic
faiths, these dead desert
religions, is to
encode us with the idea
that individualism is more
important than paganism.
Ideologies that integrally
relate us to the Earth.
So that we know that
we are integrity,
indefatigably related
to our environment,
and we live in the service
of our environment,
because self is a
temporal illusion.
So how do we make that jump,
in tangible and practical terms?
Well some people like you
just got off to the jungle
and eat a bunch of plants.
People like me have to think,
have to use the old [INAUDIBLE]
have to give the
noggin a floggin.
I just think and meditate on the
name-- the holy names of God.
We are all one.
So that's been helping me out.
What are some of
those holy names?
Krishna.
Satnam, the nickname
of God, they say.
But it can be the lords prayer,
like Joseph Campbell-- who
I love loads--
says, all religions
are true in that the
metaphor is true.
The metaphor is
true, that we are
all one, that there is a system
for attaining this oneness.
There has been a
scripture [INAUDIBLE] --
You ever hear of this
guy, Slavoj Zizek?
RUSSELL BRAND: Yeah,
I've heard of that Zizek.
Zizek.
You know he has that
whole idea that--
He's a trouble-maker.
He's a rabble-rouser.
---New Age, Asiatic
thought, has become
the underlying
ideology of postmodern,
post-industrial capitalism.
Cause it allows people to
participate in the system
that's still about
domination and aggression,
while having this inner
sense of detachment.
Yeah, I think that's right.
But I don't think that that's
a particularly new thing.
These ideas rose up at the
time of that Madame Bovary,
didn't they?
In a time of young
mysticism-- it
normally happens
every time a bit
of fin de siecle
terror kicks in.
What we need to do
now is to recognize
that these spiritual principles
have political ramifications--
AKA socialism.
So these things have to be
materialized and politicized.
Yeah, so it's no good me,
for being sat around covered
in daft tattoos about Jesus
and Buddha, and then going off
and wanking in the
back of a limo.
Although that's exactly what
I'm doing when I leave here.
But the fact is that
these principles
need to be materialized.
Initially, materialized
in the new--
So that's the question
again, is what do you seek?
There seems to be--
there's always that gap.
We see the enlightenment
realized state that we'd
like everybody to be in.
And then we have this
mess, this quandary
that we're in right now.
So how do we make those
little bridging steps?
We make-- I think we obtain
it within ourselves, initially,
and we communicate these
ideas on a personal level.
Spirituality-- I can get,
as you've just heard,
I can be very verbose and
loquacious on the topic.
But really, it
just means be nice.
It ain't hard.
Just be nice.
You meet a homeless
person, be nice.
You get into a cab,
be nice to the person.
Don't see yourself
as adversarial.
Then the revolution
has already occurred.
People fear
Armageddon, don't they?
People fear the
apocalypse, don't they?
But for some, Armageddon
has already occurred.
The homeless people
that walk our streets
live already in a
post-apocalyptic world.
Armageddon will surely
come for each of us.
Our own personal Armageddon,
when each of us die.
Isn't it redundant, whether
everyone simultaneously dies,
if each of us will
individually die regardless.
Armageddon is coming.
So whilst these
cataclysmic principles
apply on the individual level--
Although, there
are people who think
we might be able to
extend the human lifespans
with biotechnology, merging
with machines and live forever.
Yeah, yeah, that's
all cool, man.
But what I'm saying is,
is that what we have to do
is individually reach our
own personal alignment.
We have to do-- the
principles are all there.
You know this.
The principles
are already there.
We achieve detachment
through meditation.
We no longer-- once we live.
Once we can achieve
enlightenment.
And once we put our satisfaction
beyond our individual needs,
we are no longer malleable
by the pre-existing system.
The system requires us to be
selfish little consumerist
pods.
Once we go, aw, hey, I'm
not [INAUDIBLE] about that.
It's easier for me, because
I've been famous now.
I know that's boring.
I've been rich now.
I [BLEEP] loads of people now.
I know that's boring.
I took loads of drugs now.
So all that's left is
spiritual enlightenment.
That's all that's left.
What's the political dimension
of love and sexuality?
What is what, mate?
What's the political dimension
of love and sexuality?
Well, I don't think
I'm the man to ask,
because my previous-- in that
area-- is nothing that good.
It's like, you don't
ask Charles Manson
how to run neighbourhood watch.
Oh, just let 'em
get into the hills.
Are you trying to-- is that
an area where you're trying to
up your game?
Yeah, I'm upping it.
For me, I've got to realize
that I'm not a person
who can live in will or desire.
I have to learn to
live-- look only
within myself for happiness.
I can't let this guy
run the show anymore.
He's had a good innings.
What do you see
your trajectory now?
Here you have this massive
fame, this huge following.
You're a huge public artist.
How do you then use
that for these goals
that you're discussing?
Someone told me ages
ago, and I should
have just listened to him then.
I met this swami, I goes,
should I become a monk?
He went, pfft, no.
Like he didn't want
me in the monk gang.
Like he said, you'll ruin
it for the rest of us.
He goes, use what
you have for God.
Dedicate yourself to God.
We don't have to
worry about God-- just
means higher thing,
difficult for us
to comprehend and ascertain
with our limited sensory realm.
Cannot understand
the ocean of reality
in the teacup of the mind.
Probably roomy, probably roomy.
So what I think is,
if there's something
you're good at, doing
jokes or whatever,
do them jokes for God.
You know?
What's your best evidence
for the existence of God?
Ah, well, I feel
like-- sometimes I
feel the gentle, playful
spirit of God in nature.
Sometimes I feel it
within myself, in quiet.
For me, I remember, it's
a difficult concept.
For me it is life.
It is consciousness.
Consciousness itself is God.
You cannot allow
consciousness to become
refracted into an abstract
idea such as individualism.
Individualism is a material,
sensorial, biological notion,
which we can conquer through
the expansion of consciousness.
Why live on this dimension?
Why live only on this
frequency once we
know other frequencies exist?
We have a obligation, for
the evolution of our species,
to continue to pioneer.
This is the country
of the pioneer.
So do you feel that you're in
the running to be a messiah?
Yep!
Only the true messiah
would deny he's messiah.
Nah, I ain't bothered.
I'm just going to be what
I am and that's that.
Cause once it goes in
other people's brains,
they can do what the
[BLEEP] they like with it.
I'm just going to be
doing what I'm doing.
-Nice one, nice one.
-But I'm ready.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Hey, well, let's bring
Eve Ensler on, have
a brief three-way dialogue.
-We having a three-way?
-Yeah--
I knew this day would come.
---yeah, we have a three-way.
Yeah, yeah.
NARRATOR: Author of
"The Vagina Monologues,"
Eve Ensler is an American
playwright, performer,
feminist, and activist.
Her current book, "In
the Body of the World,"
has been regarded as
an unforgettable, raw,
and powerful story by the
New York Times book review.
She is the creator of V-Day,
a global activist movement
to stop violence against women.
The movement to date has
raised over $80 million
and has funded over 12,000
community-based anti-violence
programs and safe houses, in
the Congo, Haiti, Kenya, South
Dakota, Egypt, and
Iraq, providing
women sanctuary from
abuse, genital mutilation,
and honor killing.
She was born in New
York City, and in 1999,
was awarded the
Guggenheim Fellowship
award in playwriting.
Well this is fun for me.
I get to introduce two
extremely extraordinary
human beings to each other.
Eve, meet Russell.
Russell, Eve.
-Hi.
-Hello!
Hello.
So happy to meet you.
I'm happy to meet you too.
No, really?
So nice and kind,
and a bit sexy.
Thank you.
Aw, thanks.
So we were talking
beforehand about, well,
cultural programming, which we
kind of discussed a little bit.
And, yeah, and how,
in a way, we could
use cultural engineering to
bring about a transformation.
Which I guess you've been doing.
Maybe you want to tell
Russell a little bit
about your perspective on that.
Well, I like what you
were talking about,
getting out of the
individualism thing
and the consumerism thing.
And beginning to see ourselves
as artists and the creators
of our destiny.
I think so much of
what is happening
is the creating of this passive
culture, where people are just
staring up at a screen
or being-- just consuming
and transacting.
As opposed to seeing
themselves as transformers
of their own destiny.
And I just really am
interested now in all the ways
we create energetic shifts
in helping people become
transformers of the world.
And I love what you were
saying about being nice.
How do we generate kindness?
How do we generate
images of kindness?
And the possibility of kindness?
So much of the
culture that exists
is about perpetrating cynical
ideas of who human beings are.
Particularly television.
Yeah, it is.
Because I see that Darwin--
"Origin of Species"-- survival
of the fittest and all that.
And Social Darwinism,
those ideas that
were leapt upon a century ago.
In that actual book,
"Origin of Species,"
it kept going, but most animals,
they're a lovely, cuddly bunch.
Exactly.
And they're always
being nice to each other.
They [BLEEP] that
bit off, cause they
wanted a convenient message.
It was the bulk of the book.
The survival of the species
was only a tiny little bit
of the book, you know?
So they just look
for information
that conveniently conveys a
preexisting narrative, then
bombard us with that
narrative till we
can't think nothing else.
Absolutely.
Not very nice.
And what if we just
started saying that people--
another Terence McKenna thing--
he says this really interesting
thing about the fall, right?
That the whole idea of the
fall, that people are fallen.
Who made that up?
Maybe we're rising.
Maybe we're not fallen.
But that just keeps
everybody in their place,
believing they're
fallen people, you know?
And I think if we actually
pulled out from that thinking,
and saw or just really re-framed
who we are, and re-conceived
who we are.
Like, actually, we're rising
people, not falling people.
That we can create--
and I love what
you said about the evolution
of the next consciousness.
That we're just here to
push up to the next place
that we need to go, you know.
Yeah.
So, yeah, but tell me
more on how-- Russell,
how can we accomplish that?
You mentioned socialism before.
I was kind of
curious, do you think
that the next phase
of human society
resembles a kind
of socialist model?
One of my favorite
essays is Oscar
Wilde's essay on socialism.
-I ain't read that.
Oh, you gotta read it.
I'll send it to you.
It's awesome.
But, yeah, so he argues that
basically the artist has been
the exemplary human individual.
Has shown how individuality
can really flourish.
But often artists in the
past were ones who had
independent means, or wealth.
They had the time to really
cultivate themselves,
which most people don't have.
And that you would actually
need something like socialism
so that everybody had
their ability to cultivate
their own unique individuality.
Yeah.
You know socialism got a
bad rap in your country,
because the whole communism
and McCarthyism and whatnot.
But Communism only
means sharing.
You tell children to do it.
And the other thing is--
It's true.
---the other thing is
that people go, ah,
but what about Russia, though?
That weren't very nice.
They did a Gulag.
Or what about China?
Little girls-- foot binding?
And things like that.
That's not-- that's added after.
With my iPod-- iPad-- I use it
a lot to look at pornography.
That ain't Steve Jobs'
[BLEEP] fault. It's up to me
what you do with a system.
If a system,
deployed correctly--
Absolutely.
---can create a great deal
of social benevolence.
No, absolutely.
My guess is she would
have a potentially
negative perspective around
the whole pornographic complex.
We know the V is bad.
I like more talking
about the systems, though.
Because I think, you're
absolutely right.
It's like, who gets hold
of socialistic concepts
determines what happens
with them, right?
Well, even Marx said
that communism would never
work in a developing country.
That it would only work
in a first-world country
like the US.
It would almost be like, if
there was a financial cratering
in the US or the UK, it would
be our first opportunity
to see if that model
actually happened.
There's been a massive,
great big financial cratering.
And I suppose the
reason this idea needs
to be derided and attacked
so vociferously is because
of its potential applicability.
-Absolutely.
But that's the reason
that the people have to go,
don't ever do
communism, will you.
Why?
Oh, cause then we'd have to
give up all of our money.
Absolutely, and you
have to share it.
And spread it around,
so everybody lives well.
Well, yeah, Oscar
Wilde said that we
have to get rid of
private property,
ultimately for the
sake of the rich.
RUSSELL BRAND: Aw, all my stuff.
Exactly, because it creates
all these attachments.
How would you feel if you did
have to give up all this stuff?
Initially, a bit annoyed,
but ultimately grateful.
Yeah, yeah.
I think everyone-- cause I
think things confuse people.
I don't know about you,
but when I go to the store
and I look at all the choices,
I just get really freaked out.
I don't know what to buy.
And when you go to
stores in countries
that don't have so many choices,
you go in, you get salt,
and you buy the salt. And
they're done with salt.
You don't have-- you
don't spend your day
thinking about which salt.
But obviously most of
the countries in the world
are dying to achieve the
level of affluence and comfort
that we've attained
in the US, right?
So how do you talk
to those people?
That would be maybe a job for
artists, as cultural engineers,
to kind of talk to the
people of the world
and suggest that
there's another step.
Beyond just material
accumulation.
Or what do you think?
I suppose we need to
popularize different ideas.
The reason that I
dress in this way,
the reason I regard material
positions as valuable,
is because my entire
life I've been
subject to messages
that told me that this
was precisely the truth.
That myself-- that
they generate,
initially, a sense
of fear and a sense
of absence within the self.
A sense of fear and
absence, which needs
to be fulfilled and addressed.
They then tell you that
the solution to this fear
is to engage in consumerism.
And to raise your
self-esteem, comparatively,
through symbols in the media.
This is what will
make you happy.
You know that the
products used to be
sold on the basis of utility.
You have feet, you need shoes.
Then after the brilliant and
evil Edward Bernays, nephew
of Freud, said that the way
they used to sell people
is on the basis of--
not of utility and need,
but on the basis it will
make them feel better.
Then the way that the
products became marketed was,
buy these shoes,
you will feel cool.
This is a significant
difference, because otherwise,
once people owned shoes,
they've got shoes.
Once people own a
washing machine,
they've got a washing machine.
We need to be trapped in
a cycle of fear and need,
so that we remain
docile and malleable.
Now obviously I have not
managed to avoid this system.
I'm completely a product of it.
But I recognize that
these things-- scarf,
wonderful that it is.
Shoes, very jazzy, very sexy.
Trinkets and items,
temporarily beguiling.
They are ultimately meaningless.
We all know this.
We already know everything.
The last words of the Bhagavad
Gita are, "I remember."
We already know everything.
So I think we just have to
popularize a different message.
People are ready now.
Luckily we're in a situation
where most people are pretty
[BLEEP] pissed
off of everything.
So this is time for transition.
I also think connected to
that is, what makes you happy
and what is enough?
What makes you happy
and what is enough.
And I think most people don't
ask themselves that question.
I spent the summer
in southern Italy,
where people have enough.
They don't have a lot,
but they have enough.
And they're actually
really happy.
And the pleasures are
such different pleasures.
They're, like, moon-bathing.
And they're dancing at night.
And they're setting
out incredible lanterns
into the sky and people
dance under them.
And there's pleasure-- it's
deep pleasure that's rooted
in the country, in the land.
And I think part of it
is, we don't even know
what gives us pleasure anymore.
We don't.
We're so busy consuming
and getting the next thing.
What about you?
Do you really like that
idea of moon-bathing?
I did like moon-bathing
as a concept.
Moon-bathing is amazing.
-We're all in the moon--
-No--
---bathing.
---moonbathing is amazing.
-I bet it is amazing.
-No, it is.
I bet it's better
than "X-Factor,"
after you get used to it.
It is, yeah.
After thinking, uh, has
the moon got a relative
that recently got cancer?
Now I can really back it.
Nice.
Cause on-- when you
watch these reality TVs,
there's a formulaic way of
presenting the information.
If you see one of
the contestants
is-- this person just
recently overcome a tragedy,
that means that you are
meant to align yourself
with that particular contestant.
That is the way that
narrative is built,
so that you find the
"X-Factor" more entertaining
than you otherwise would.
Because it is in fact, as
you know in your heart, shit.
Although if you
start watching it,
you will become engaged,
like pornography.
Best not to start.
That's what Terence
McKenna says.
Unplug, don't go in.
Because once you
go in, you're in.
It just begins to take you down.
And I also think--
And heroin.
But it is heroin.
It is heroin.
-Once you start--
Absolutely.
It'd be, ah, I'd
love some more now.
No, exactly.
-I feel relaxed.
-Absolutely.
Have a bit more.
Ooh, I'm more relaxed.
More.
Well, not so relaxed now.
But I also think
it feeds on itself.
Like, the more you go
in, it depresses you.
It makes you feel
bad about yourself.
You're no one.
You're nothing.
Then you get more, and you keep
getting further and further
and further down the hole.
But if you go, all
right, I'm refusing that.
I actually think I am OK.
I am somebody.
I exist.
What matters to me is real.
What happens to me is real.
It matters.
It has value.
Then you begin to chart
a different course.
But it's very hard if you're
plugged into that system,
cause it's really powerful.
Yeah, and they don't like
it when you're defiant.
If you go, I don't really
want none of your stuff now.
They'll go, it's
really good, our stuff.
And you go, but I
still don't want it.
We will kill you.
Exactly.
All right, I'll have
some of this stuff.
Well, if that doesn't satisfy
our real needs, what does?
There's a whole idea from
Joseph Chilton Pearce,
that ultimately there's a
human need for transcendence.
Or initiatory experience.
Like something that--
that's why people
seek out ayahuaska and
shamanic experience and so on.
Is that a possible
future direction?
Do you find that
through meditation?
You encounter those types of--
I got no choice, have I?
Cause I got a big--
the whole drug problem
and abstinence based recovery.
So for me-- but I agree
that you're right.
I think a certain
percentage of the population
probably needs
transcendent experiences.
I don't know how
early societies were
formalized-- tribal societies.
But I don't imagine
everyone in the village
was a witch doctor,
necking bunches of plants
and having crazy visions.
Cause who's gonna
[BLEEP] cut the crops
and look after all the
cooking and everything?
But some people have got to
have transcendent experiences,
so they can report
back like, ah, you
think that this is all real.
Don't worry, it's not.
Relax.
You make a pot.
You do some cooking.
All right, cool.
Everyone can't be the shaman,
otherwise, who's gonna wash up?
But also, what are
transcendent experiences?
To me-- and I'm in
the same boat as you,
having been off drugs and
alcohol for a long time.
It's hard, isn't it?
Oh, yeah, really hard.
But I've been alive already.
So one of the things
I feel, for me,
is transcendence comes
through connection.
It's really simple.
It's like, so much
of my life I was
so afraid to connect to this.
To this body.
To this being.
And to other people.
Because my heart was
just too vulnerable.
And now, I feel
like, OK, connection,
that's where we transcend.
It's when we actually look
at someone, touch someone.
They're real, they're physical.
They're connected to us.
You know?
Was that some of it then?
I think so.
It was.
That was nice.
Makes me want to
cry a little bit.
Oh, I see.
So the self is an
artificial construct,
and we can begin
to diminish this
by valuing other people and
other people's needs as much
as our own.
It's in the Bible anyway.
Love thy neighbor.
Which we knew when
we were tribal,
because we didn't even have such
a sense of individual I-self.
We had more of a
sense of a group self.
We're a bunch of ants, all
scurrying about helping.
Well, I heard a story
about these people
who were making a film
about-- documentary
about Australian Aboriginals.
But they showed them a
bunch of documentaries,
they asked them,
how do they really
want to be shown in the film?
They said they didn't want
there to be any closeups.
They wanted the whole tribe
to be visible in every frame.
That's beautiful.
Difficult challenge
for the filmmaker,
as the closeup is a necessary
component of storytelling.
Well, maybe.
Maybe old storytelling.
Maybe that's the old way of
telling a story, you know?
Ah, we've got to do
some ch-ch-ch-changes,
as Ziggy predicted.
Yes.
Yeah, so how do you guys see
that culture could change over
the next period to kind of
reflect this new realization
or understanding.
Have I got a say?
DANIEL PINCHBECK:
Go for it, yeah.
This new culture-- I think
that Eve should go first,
cause if you--
No, no you go
ahead, you're on it.
How's it gonna
reflect the changes?
Well I think that our last lot,
that already know this stuff,
have to sort of be
cool and relaxed,
and be ready to protest
in a relaxed way.
Recognize the causes that are
in alignment with what we want,
and so that we can coalesce.
Not get all bogged down in the
same egotistical pitfalls that
have befell our great
heroes of the '60s.
Me, for example, I'm
very egotistical.
So I'll always have
a bit of a problem,
cause a little bit down the
line I'll start to go, god,
I look great being a hippie.
And I'll get carried
away with this.
So if we sort of let them
police ourselves a little bit,
so that we don't, sort
of, get all carried away.
We don't be all wishy-washy
and bullshit and humorless.
Cause that shit's boring.
No one wants a revolution where
everyone's going, hey man,
I've made a vegan roast.
We've got to be a
little bit more- grrr.
The chaos of the trickster.
Bring it.
-Yeah--
Revolution is sexy.
---I'm with that.
Absolutely.
So I think all just play
our individual roles--
Vaginas alive.
--coalest, subjugate the ego.
No, I totally agree.
I think every
revolution we're talking
about now in the future--
Did you say-- what
did you say just then?
I was just saying vaginas.
I was thinking about why--
You read my mind.
No, but, I was thinking about
why did V-Day take off, right?
Because it was about vaginas.
It was about people
thinking about sex.
thinking about connection.
It was about people-- and
it was so outrageously
ridiculous that everybody
started performing
it in all these countries.
It had the trickster in it.
Abbie Hoffman is like one of
my favorite people of all--
Oh, my mother edited
his first book, actually.
Oh, I love Abbie Hoffman.
"Revolution for
the Hell of It."
RUSSELL BRAND: Cool.
Abbie Hoffman was
my deep inspiration.
Because he was wild, and he
was a clown, and he was-- it's
why I love Russell so much.
I feel like he's--
you don't know
what's going to happen next.
It's unexpected.
-We don't know.
And I think that's when
things change, when you're
living in that quixotic place.
Quixotic?
Like Don Quixote?
He was a right
[INAUDIBLE], mind you.
He imagined everything.
Mind you, we don't know that
this frequency of reality
is the ultimate reality.
Oh yeah, imagination's OK then.
Thank you.
Yeah, no problem.
Well, listen, thank you
so much for joining me,
I really appreciate it.
It's good being on
this program, wasn't it?
-Yeah, this was fun.
-You like it?
Ah, you're good, you're kind.
Ah, hey, thank you.
And also, what's
nice, is Daniel
knows the answer to all the
questions and still asks them.
I know.